README.md, before:

# Fast Method Source

* Repository: [https://github.com/kyrylo/fast_method_source/][repo]

Description
-----------

Fast Method Source is an extension for quering methods for their source code and
comments. Additionally, it supports Procs and lambdas.

```ruby
require 'fast_method_source'
require 'fast_method_source/core_ext'
require 'set'

puts Set.instance_method(:merge).source
```

Output.

```
  def merge(enum)
    if enum.instance_of?(self.class)
      @hash.update(enum.instance_variable_get(:@hash))
    else
      do_with_enum(enum) { |o| add(o) }
    end

    self
  end
```

Installation
------------

All you need is to install the gem.

    gem install fast_method_source

Synopsis
--------

Fast Method Source provides similar functionality to [method_source][ms], but
with a number of major key differences.

### Speed improvements

The main goal of Fast Method Source is to be as fast as possible. In result, the
library is much faster than method_source. The benchmark showed that it's
about 5-10x faster than its competitor. There's also room for future speed
improvements.

#### #source
##### ruby 2.2.2p95 (2015-04-13 revision 50295) [x86_64-linux]

```
Processor: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-2410M CPU @ 2.30GHz
Platform: ruby 2.2.2p95 (2015-04-13 revision 50295) [x86_64-linux]
Counting the number of sample methods...
Sample methods: 19438
Rehearsal -----------------------------------------------------------
FastMethodSource#source  18.760000   1.290000  20.050000 ( 21.802014)
MethodSource#source     100.100000   0.440000 100.540000 (122.748676)
------------------------------------------------ total: 120.590000sec

                              user     system      total        real
FastMethodSource#source  19.040000   1.170000  20.210000 ( 22.079805)
MethodSource#source      92.740000   0.300000  93.040000 (103.833941)
```

#### #comment
##### ruby 2.2.2p95 (2015-04-13 revision 50295) [x86_64-linux]

```
Processor: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-2410M CPU @ 2.30GHz
Platform: ruby 2.2.2p95 (2015-04-13 revision 50295) [x86_64-linux]
Counting the number of sample methods...
Sample methods: 19595
Rehearsal ------------------------------------------------------------
FastMethodSource#comment   4.120000   0.520000   4.640000 (  5.188443)
MethodSource#comment      82.480000   0.330000  82.810000 (103.135012)
-------------------------------------------------- total: 87.450000sec

                               user     system      total        real
FastMethodSource#comment   3.580000   0.370000   3.950000 (  4.398557)
MethodSource#comment      73.390000   0.150000  73.540000 ( 81.880220)
```

### Correctness of output

Fast Method Source is capable of displaying source code even for dynamically
defined methods.

```ruby
require 'fast_method_source'
require 'rss'

puts RSS::Maker::ChannelBase.instance_method(:dc_description=).source
```

Output.

```
            def #{name}=(#{new_value_variable_name})
              #{local_variable_name} =
                #{plural_name}.first || #{plural_name}.new_#{new_name}
              #{additional_setup_code}
              #{local_variable_name}.#{attribute} = #{new_value_variable_name}
            end
```

API
---

The library provides two methods `#source` and `#comment`. There are two ways to
use Fast Method Source. One way is to monkey-patch default Ruby classes and use
these methods directly.

```ruby
require 'fast_method_source'
require 'fast_method_source/core_ext'

# With UnboundMethod
Set.instance_method(:merge).source
#=> "  def merge(enum)\n..."

# With Method
Set.method(:[]).source
#=> "  def self.[](*ary)\n..."

# With Proc (or lambda)
myproc = proc { |arg|
  arg + 1
}
myproc.source
#=> "myproc = proc { |arg|\n..."
```

The other way is by using these methods accessing the library directly.

```ruby
require 'fast_method_source'

# With UnboundMethod
FastMethodSource.source_for(Set.instance_method(:merge))
#=> "  def merge(enum)\n..."

# With Method
FastMethodSource.source_for(Set.method(:[]))
#=> "  def self.[](*ary)\n..."

# With Proc (or lambda)
myproc = proc { |arg|
  arg + 1
}
FastMethodSource.source_for(myproc)
#=> "myproc = proc { |arg|\n..."
```

Limitations
-----------

### Rubies

* CRuby 2.2.2
* CRuby 2.3.0dev and higher

Rubies below 2.2.2 were not tested, so in theory if it quacks like Ruby 2, it
may work.

### OS'es

* GNU/Linux
* Mac OS (hopefully)

Roadmap
-------

Although Fast Method Source is faster than any of its competitors, it's still
very slow. On average, a mature Rails 4 application has at least 45K methods. In
order to query all those methods for their source code, you would need to wait
for a while and perhaps to drink a cup of tea.

The goal of the project is to be able to query 50K methods in less than 15
seconds. Whether it's possible or not is to be determined.

Licence
-------

The project uses Zlib License. See the LICENCE.txt file for more information.

[repo]: https://github.com/kyrylo/fast_method_source/ "Home page"
[ms]: https://github.com/banister/method_source

Commit message:

README: add benchmark for #comment_and_source_for

README.md, after:

# Fast Method Source

* Repository: [https://github.com/kyrylo/fast_method_source/][repo]

Description
-----------

Fast Method Source is an extension for quering methods for their source code and
comments. Additionally, it supports Procs and lambdas.

```ruby
require 'fast_method_source'
require 'fast_method_source/core_ext'
require 'set'

puts Set.instance_method(:merge).source
```

Output.

```
  def merge(enum)
    if enum.instance_of?(self.class)
      @hash.update(enum.instance_variable_get(:@hash))
    else
      do_with_enum(enum) { |o| add(o) }
    end

    self
  end
```

Installation
------------

All you need is to install the gem.

    gem install fast_method_source

Synopsis
--------

Fast Method Source provides similar functionality to [method_source][ms], but
with a number of major key differences.

### Speed improvements

The main goal of Fast Method Source is to be as fast as possible. In result, the
library is much faster than method_source. The benchmark showed that it's
about 5-10x faster than its competitor. There's also room for future speed
improvements.

#### #commend_and_source
##### ruby 2.2.2p95 (2015-04-13 revision 50295) [x86_64-linux]

```
Processor: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-2410M CPU @ 2.30GHz
Platform: ruby 2.2.2p95 (2015-04-13 revision 50295) [x86_64-linux]
Counting the number of sample methods...
Sample methods: 19439
Rehearsal ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
FastMethodSource#comment_and_source_for  24.080000   1.900000  25.980000 ( 28.425889)
----------------------------------------------------------------- total: 25.980000sec

                                              user     system      total        real
FastMethodSource#comment_and_source_for  23.130000   1.710000  24.840000 ( 27.097578)
```

#### #source
##### ruby 2.2.2p95 (2015-04-13 revision 50295) [x86_64-linux]

```
Processor: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-2410M CPU @ 2.30GHz
Platform: ruby 2.2.2p95 (2015-04-13 revision 50295) [x86_64-linux]
Counting the number of sample methods...
Sample methods: 19438
Rehearsal -----------------------------------------------------------
FastMethodSource#source  18.760000   1.290000  20.050000 ( 21.802014)
MethodSource#source     100.100000   0.440000 100.540000 (122.748676)
------------------------------------------------ total: 120.590000sec

                              user     system      total        real
FastMethodSource#source  19.040000   1.170000  20.210000 ( 22.079805)
MethodSource#source      92.740000   0.300000  93.040000 (103.833941)
```

#### #comment
##### ruby 2.2.2p95 (2015-04-13 revision 50295) [x86_64-linux]

```
Processor: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-2410M CPU @ 2.30GHz
Platform: ruby 2.2.2p95 (2015-04-13 revision 50295) [x86_64-linux]
Counting the number of sample methods...
Sample methods: 19595
Rehearsal ------------------------------------------------------------
FastMethodSource#comment   4.120000   0.520000   4.640000 (  5.188443)
MethodSource#comment      82.480000   0.330000  82.810000 (103.135012)
-------------------------------------------------- total: 87.450000sec

                               user     system      total        real
FastMethodSource#comment   3.580000   0.370000   3.950000 (  4.398557)
MethodSource#comment      73.390000   0.150000  73.540000 ( 81.880220)
```

### Correctness of output

Fast Method Source is capable of displaying source code even for dynamically
defined methods.

```ruby
require 'fast_method_source'
require 'rss'

puts RSS::Maker::ChannelBase.instance_method(:dc_description=).source
```

Output.

```
            def #{name}=(#{new_value_variable_name})
              #{local_variable_name} =
                #{plural_name}.first || #{plural_name}.new_#{new_name}
              #{additional_setup_code}
              #{local_variable_name}.#{attribute} = #{new_value_variable_name}
            end
```

API
---

The library provides two methods `#source` and `#comment`. There are two ways to
use Fast Method Source. One way is to monkey-patch default Ruby classes and use
these methods directly.

```ruby
require 'fast_method_source'
require 'fast_method_source/core_ext'

# With UnboundMethod
Set.instance_method(:merge).source
#=> "  def merge(enum)\n..."

# With Method
Set.method(:[]).source
#=> "  def self.[](*ary)\n..."

# With Proc (or lambda)
myproc = proc { |arg|
  arg + 1
}
myproc.source
#=> "myproc = proc { |arg|\n..."
```

The other way is by using these methods accessing the library directly.

```ruby
require 'fast_method_source'

# With UnboundMethod
FastMethodSource.source_for(Set.instance_method(:merge))
#=> "  def merge(enum)\n..."

# With Method
FastMethodSource.source_for(Set.method(:[]))
#=> "  def self.[](*ary)\n..."

# With Proc (or lambda)
myproc = proc { |arg|
  arg + 1
}
FastMethodSource.source_for(myproc)
#=> "myproc = proc { |arg|\n..."
```

Limitations
-----------

### Rubies

* CRuby 2.2.2
* CRuby 2.3.0dev and higher

Rubies below 2.2.2 were not tested, so in theory if it quacks like Ruby 2, it
may work.

### OS'es

* GNU/Linux
* Mac OS (hopefully)

Roadmap
-------

Although Fast Method Source is faster than any of its competitors, it's still
very slow. On average, a mature Rails 4 application has at least 45K methods. In
order to query all those methods for their source code, you would need to wait
for a while and perhaps to drink a cup of tea.

The goal of the project is to be able to query 50K methods in less than 15
seconds. Whether it's possible or not is to be determined.

Licence
-------

The project uses Zlib License. See the LICENCE.txt file for more information.

[repo]: https://github.com/kyrylo/fast_method_source/ "Home page"
[ms]: https://github.com/banister/method_source
